about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
feature-img: "img/sample_feature_img_2.png"
---

The idea for this site came about because my wife was complaining about the constant private messages she was getting on LinkedIn from creepy men wanting to use the site as if it were a dating site and not a site for professionals to connect.

## Not the first time
In the past I have blogged about particular individuals (like [David Stewart](http://tosbourn.com/david-stewart-marketing-digital-solutions-thinks-ok-creep-females-linkedin/)) who think it is OK to creep on ladies but
other people have since contacted me with similar stories and screen grabs.

I thought I would make a space were people could call out these idiots.

## Not just for ladies
I imagine that the vast majority of the victims in these situations are going to be women, and as of writing this about page the posts have been exclusively from women but that isn't to say I wouldn't publish something
a man shared that he felt was inappropriate – Assholery is assholery.

## Plans for the future

Right now the site is very new and unpolished – If the idea takes off and I start getting more submissions I will build out the site some more and allow people to share stuff a lot easier and things like that. I will also
set up social media accounts for the site at some point as well.

## Want to contribute?

If you want to submit anything we have a [submission page](/submit/) page – or if you would like to help with the design or development of the site we are on [github](https://github.com/tosbourn/creepedin)

Commit message:

Removes some default images and adds some styling to banner

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

The idea for this site came about because my wife was complaining about the constant private messages she was getting on LinkedIn from creepy men wanting to use the site as if it were a dating site and not a site for professionals to connect.

## Not the first time
In the past I have blogged about particular individuals (like [David Stewart](http://tosbourn.com/david-stewart-marketing-digital-solutions-thinks-ok-creep-females-linkedin/)) who think it is OK to creep on women and
other people have since contacted me with similar stories and screen grabs.

I thought I would make a space were people could call out these idiots.

## Not just for women
I imagine that some of the victims in these situations are going to be women, but I'm sure this probably happens to men/non-binary folk too. I would definitely publish something anyone shared that they felt was inappropriate – Assholery is assholery.

## Plans for the future

Right now the site is very new and unpolished – If the idea takes off and I start getting more submissions I will build out the site some more and allow people to share stuff a lot easier and things like that. I will also
set up social media accounts for the site at some point as well.

## Want to contribute?

If you want to submit anything we have a [submission page](/submit/) page – or if you would like to help with the design or development of the site we are on [github](https://github.com/tosbourn/creepedin).
