---
layout: post
title: The Lucky Dodge
---

Heads up! Something is flying your way. Look around and run for cover.

You dodged. The person next to you did not. She was looking at her phone. Now she has student loans and a mortgage and a two year pre-paid subscription to the gym.

She goes to Croatia every year for a week and pays $5K to get wasted on a yacht for 168 hours straight. Then back to work for another 358 days.

When she meets the nomadic photographer hired to document her annual outing, she wishes she had dodged. When she sees her car and house payment statements every month, she wishes she had dodged.

---

Most people won't dodge. Either they're afraid of looking stupid, or they're sure they don't need to dodge. No one around them is dodging. Their parents didn't dodge. They're in college in a good country and they've got good grades and friends.

Some will be fine, because smart people are always in demand by slightly-less-smart people. Many will flirt with misery. Millennials have far less capital and higher unemployment than the last two industrial generations. Being underpaid for interesting work is a life. Career artists have been doing interesting work at relatively low pay for years, and they're still around. But the boredom that comes with uninteresting work and the hopeless months without job interviews in your field is soul-crushing.

---

As life plans become more modular, avoiding the life of quiet desperation becomes easier. We can spot investments and commitments that make us unhappy and dodge them far in advance. Austin and I both dodged the slow and expensive track of traditional computer science education. By doing that, we gained better control over what influences direct our lives and better perspective on our own interests. Now we're moving into full location independence. From college kid to digital nomad in a year - whoa.

Very few individual decisions have irreparable impacts. Small, compounding decisions have huge impact. As long as you're able to recognize (or ask others for feedback) when you've made a bad call, you'll come out ahead. I have friends who are trying to dodge after thirty years of not dodging. It's painful to watch. Some are doing well, others have been struggling for years with little progress. Every one has deep regrets.

Will you ever _truly_ know what to dodge? Perhaps not, but making good decisions half of the time is better than making no decisions at all. It's a cliche, but it is true: if you don't choose, someone else will.
