---
layout: post
title: How good is HBO?
---
I was looking through DVDs in JB Hifi the other day when I noticed *Everybody Loves Raymond* DVDs in the HBO section. Huh? *Everybody Loves Raymond* was an HBO show? I say this not out of disdain for *Raymond*, which I actually think is a well-made traditional sitcom, but it doesn't exactly feel like what we've learnt to think of as an HBO show.

It turns out that *Raymond* was the most successful product of an obscure arm of HBO called [HBO Independent Productions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HBO#Television_and_film_production); it certainly wasn't broadcast on HBO the   cable channel. So that answers that.

But it got me thinking about the reputation that HBO has built as a purveyor of "quality" TV. In Australia in particular, HBO occupies the same kind of cultural place that the BBC used to: it's mentioned as a byword for "the best the medium has to offer" in a way that it possible hasn't for quite a long time in the US. Almost any HBO shows will be spoken of in reverential tones by our TV critics.

This is particularly striking giving that Australians don't actually **get** HBO as such. Those of us with pay TV don't get the option of buying HBO as a channel; instead, HBO shows are put out on a channel called Showtime which advertises itself as the "Home of HBO", but also includes non-HBO shows like *Dexter*, *Mad Men* and *Orange is the New Black*. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if many Australians assume that these are all HBO shows, in the same way they used to assume that any vaguely prestigious UK show must be from the BBC.

So how deserved is this reputation? Well, looking over the roster of HBO's major shows, here is my personal taxonomy (I'm only mentioning full-length series here, and only fiction):

### Shows that are among the best things ever to appear on television

* *The Wire*
* *The Sopranos*
* *Deadwood*
* *Enlightened*
* *The Comeback*

### Shows that are very good indeed

* *Curb Your Enthusiasm*
* *Eastbound and Down*
* *Flight of the Conchords*

### Shows that I like with strong reservations

* *Six Feet Under*
* *Game of Thrones*

### Shows that are bad

* *Sex and the City*
* *True Blood*
* *Luck*
* Every Chris Lilley show after *Summer Heights High*[^1]

### Shows that are among the worst things ever to appear on television

* *The Newsroom*

### Shows I really wish were better

* *Girls*
* *Looking*

### Shows I can't get into but still kind of admire

* *Treme*
* *Boardwalk Empire*
* *Oz*

### Shows that I haven't seen

* *Veep*
* *Entourage*
* *Big Love*
* *Hung*
* *In Treatment*

So…

[^1]: I'm on record as saying that Chris Lilley should be given enough money to do anything he wants. This is my equivalent of supporting the Iraq War.